README.md, before:

Crosstab
========

Javascript library for ensuring that important things happen in just one tab.

Some apps need things to happen in exactly one tab. Or, at the very least, it
would be a nice thing to have. 

Use it when your app...

 - Plays music and shouldn't play a bunch of things at once! (like Soundcloud)
 - Writes to local files (lock contention, etc).
 - Is a multiplayer game and should only have one person per computer
 - Fights with itself and needs to be kept in line.


Demo
----

The contents of this repo are more or less hosted on my own site [here][1]. 
Check it out, or pull the repo and host it somewhere.

For some reason, ```localStorage``` events don't trigger properly on 
local files. 

Installation
------------

Source it in your html:

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="path/to/tab.js"></script>
```

Initialize a tab object:

```javascript
var tab = new Tab();
```

And that's it. Unless you want it to things.

Oh, and there are *no dependencies* aside from localStorage support. 
So that's kinda cool, I guess.


Usage
-----

The ```Tab()``` method takes in an object that specifies the functions to call
when on and off events are triggered, and supports a number of options.
Here are their defaults:

```javascript
var tab = new Tab({

	/* Code you only want to happen in one tab */
	on: function() {},
	
	/* Code to do when a tab is done being on */
	off: function() {},

	/* Trigger on without waiting for other tabs to turn off */
	/* Not yet implemented, but shouldn't take long */  
	force: false

});
```

By default, ```on``` and ```off``` are empty functions, in case that wasn't clear.
You could initialize a bunch of tabs and have them do nothing. But that's silly. 


Still to do
-----------

 - Implement tab identifiers so multiple tab groups can exist across browsers. 
 	Something like ```group : [group_name]```.
 - Closure-ify the javascript.
 - Implement the ```force``` option.
 - Pass arguments to ```on``` and ```off```.
 - Allow for overriding of global ```force``` setting on a per-call basis.
 	For example, ```tab.on(false);```.


[1]: http://technoheads.org/apps/crosstab/index.html

Commit message:

Rewrote a lot of things.
 - First off, structured the code much more nicely.
 - Secondly, if a tab isn't on, it's now considered off.
 - Thirdly, added a "status" function.
 - Fourthly, the object is closure'd so private things can't be bothered.
 - Fifthly, added some sanity testing that logs errors when something breaks a
   contract or something like that.
 - Sixthly, updated the readme to reflect changes.
 - Seventhly, updated index.html to reflect changes.

README.md, after:

Crosstab
========

Javascript library for ensuring that important things happen in just one tab.

Some apps need things to happen in exactly one tab. Or, at the very least, it
would be a nice thing to have. 

Use it when your app...

 - Plays music and shouldn't play a bunch of things at once! (like Soundcloud)
 - Writes to local files (lock contention, etc).
 - Is a multiplayer game and should only have one person per computer
 - Fights with itself and needs to be kept in line.


Demo
----

The contents of this repo are more or less hosted on my own site [here][1]. 
Check it out, or pull the repo and host it somewhere.

For some reason, ```localStorage``` events don't trigger properly on 
local files. 

Installation
------------

Source it in your html:

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="path/to/tab.js"></script>
```

And that's it. 

Oh, and there are *no dependencies* aside from localStorage support. 
So that's kinda cool, I guess.


Usage
-----

Initialize a tab object in any page you want to track.

```javascript
var tab = new Tab({
  on: function()  { alert("on!");  },
  off: function() { alert("off!"); }
});
```

Turning a tab on turns all other tabs off, and can be done as such: 

```javascript
tab.on();
```
Manually turning a tab off is similar:

```javascript
tab.off();
```

The ```Tab()``` method takes in an object that specifies the functions to call
when on and off events are triggered, and supports a number of options.
Here are their defaults:

```javascript
var tab = new Tab({

	/* Code you only want to happen in one tab */
	on: function() {},
	
	/* Code to do when a tab is done being on */
	off: function() {},

	/* Trigger on without waiting for other tabs to turn off */
	/* Not yet implemented, but shouldn't take long */  
	force: false

});
```


By default, ```on``` and ```off``` are empty functions, in case that wasn't clear.
You could initialize a bunch of tabs and have them do nothing. But that's silly. 


Still to do
-----------

 - Implement tab identifiers so multiple tab groups can exist across browsers. 
 	Something like ```group : [group_name]```.
 - Closure-ify the javascript.
 - Implement the ```force``` option.
 - Pass arguments to ```on``` and ```off```.
 - Allow for overriding of global ```force``` setting on a per-call basis.
 	For example, ```tab.on(false);```.
 - Add a ```.state()``` method to see if a tab is on or off.


[1]: http://technoheads.org/apps/crosstab/index.html
